Add Model Surgery HOWTO (#1059)
google/flax: docs/howtos/model_surgery.rst

Model Surgery
==============================

.. testsetup::

  import functools
  import numpy as np
  import jax
  from jax import lax, random, numpy as jnp
  import flax
  from flax import optim, traverse_util

  from flax import linen as nn
  from flax.core import unfreeze, freeze

> We will show how to get a flat dict of all the tensors, and then go back to a 
> nested, frozen dict. We show this for both Flax modules and optimizers.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- To avoid the "We ... show.... We show" repetition, maybe you can phrase it as follows:

```suggestion
We will show how to get a flat dict of all the tensors, and then go back to a 
nested, frozen dict. This will be demonstrated for both Flax modules and optimizers.
```

Surgery with Flax Modules
--------------------------------

> Let's first make a little model for our demo.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- For those use who have knowledge of numerical computing (NumPy) but not as familiar with NNs, I propose to maybe rephrase this like so:

```suggestion
Let's create a small convolutional neural network model for our demo.
```

.. testcode::

>   class CNN(nn.Module):

Reviewer 2: Why this particular structure?
Did you consider making it shorter not to distract from the more important code?
(Or maybe adding another level of modules if you think that's insightful)

Author: It's the default CNN that's used in many of our HOWTOs. We could change it, but I actually think it is quite nice since it simply yet realistic.

    @nn.compact
    def __call__(self, x):
      x = nn.Conv(features=32, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
      x = nn.relu(x)
      x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
      x = nn.Conv(features=64, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
      x = nn.relu(x)
      x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
      x = x.reshape((x.shape[0], -1))
      x = nn.Dense(features=256)(x)
      x = nn.relu(x)
      x = nn.Dense(features=10)(x)
      x = nn.log_softmax(x)
      return x

  def get_initial_params(rng):
    init_shape = jnp.ones((1, 28, 28, 1), jnp.float32)
    initial_params = CNN().init(rng, init_shape)['params']
    return initial_params

  key = random.PRNGKey(0)
  params = get_initial_params(key)

  print(jax.tree_map(jnp.shape, params))

.. testoutput::

  FrozenDict({
      Conv_0: {
          bias: (32,),
          kernel: (3, 3, 1, 32),
      },
      Conv_1: {
          bias: (64,),
          kernel: (3, 3, 32, 64),
      },
      Dense_0: {
          bias: (256,),
          kernel: (3136, 256),
      },
      Dense_1: {
          bias: (10,),
          kernel: (256, 10),
      },
  })

> Let's get a flat dict for doing model surgery.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

- To avoid the "Let's... Let's" repetition, maybe this would sound better:

```suggestion
Next, get a flat dict for doing model surgery as follows:
```

  params = unfreeze(params)
  # Get flattened-key: value list.
  flat_params = {'/'.join(k): v for k, v in traverse_util.flatten_dict(params).items()}
  print(jax.tree_map(jnp.shape, flat_params))

.. testoutput::
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  {'Conv_0/bias': (32,),
   'Conv_0/kernel': (3, 3, 1, 32),
   'Conv_1/bias': (64,),
   'Conv_1/kernel': (3, 3, 32, 64),
   'Dense_0/bias': (256,),
   'Dense_0/kernel': (3136, 256),
   'Dense_1/bias': (10,),
   'Dense_1/kernel': (256, 10)}

After doing whatever you want, unflatten back:

.. testcode::

  # Unflatten.
  unflat_params = traverse_util.unflatten_dict({tuple(k.split('/')): v for k, v in flat_params.items()})
  # Refreeze.
  unflat_params = freeze(unflat_params)
  print(jax.tree_map(jnp.shape, unflat_params))

.. testoutput::
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  FrozenDict({
      Conv_0: {
          bias: (32,),
          kernel: (3, 3, 1, 32),
      },
      Conv_1: {
          bias: (64,),
          kernel: (3, 3, 32, 64),
      },
      Dense_0: {
          bias: (256,),
          kernel: (3136, 256),
      },
      Dense_1: {
          bias: (10,),
          kernel: (256, 10),
      },
  })

> Surgey with Optimizers

Reviewer 2: Surgery

--------------------------------

> If you're loading from a flax optimizer, all of the variables live in

Reviewer: Suggestion: nit

```suggestion
If you're loading from a Flax optimizer, all of the variables live in
```

> If you're loading from a flax optimizer, all of the variables live in

Reviewer 2: it's only the variables that should be optimized by the optimizer, usually the `params` collection.
